feat(curriculum): Add challenge on using the value attribute (#35301)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/01-responsive-web-design/basic-html-and-html5/use-the-value-attribute-with-radio-buttons-and-checkboxes.md

---
id: 5c6c06847491271903d37cfd
title: Use the value attribute with Radio Buttons and Checkboxes
challengeType: 0
---

## Description
<section id='description'>

> When our form gets submitted, the form data sent to the server includes entries identifying the choices and input values. Inputs of type <code>radio button</code> and <code>checkbox</code> reports the value given to the value attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When our form gets submitted, the form data sent to the server includes entries identifying the choices and input values. Inputs of type <code>radio</code> and <code>checkbox</code> reports the value given to the value attribute.
```
The type is `radio` and not `radio button`

For example:
<blockquote>
&#60;label for="indoor"&#62; <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&#60;input id="indoor" value="indoor" type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor"&#62;Indoor <br>&#60;/label&#62;<br>
&#60;label for="outdoor"&#62; <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&#60;input id="outdoor" value="outdoor" type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor"&#62;Outdoor <br>&#60;/label&#62;
</blockquote>

> Here we have two grouped <code>radio button</code> inputs. When the user submits the form with the "indoor" <code>radio button</code> selected, the form data will include the line <code>indoor-outdoor=indoor</code>. This is the <code>name</code> attribute of <code>indoor-outdoor</code> and the <code>value</code> attribute of <code>indoor</code>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we have two grouped <code>radio</code> inputs. When the user submits the form with the <code>indoor</code> option <code>radio</code> selected, the form data will include the line <code>indoor-outdoor=indoor</code>. This is the <code>name</code> attribute of <code>indoor-outdoor</code> and the <code>value</code> attribute of <code>indoor</code>.
```

Reviewer: Reworded it a bit to make it look better and clearer, added option into `<code>`

> If you omit the <code>value</code> attribute the submitted form data uses the default value of <code>on</code>. In this scenario, if the user clicked on the "indoor" option and submitted the form, the resulting form data would be <code>indoor-outdoor=on</code>. Which is not useful for identifying which of the two grouped <code>radio button</code>s the user selected. So we need to set the value attribute to something which identifies the choice. In the above example, we used the label text indoor and outdoor as the values for the <code>value</code> attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you omit the <code>value</code> attribute, the submitted form data uses the default value which is <code>on</code>. In this scenario, if the user clicked on the "indoor" option and submitted the form, the resulting form data would be <code>indoor-outdoor=on</code> which is not useful for identifying which of the two grouped <code>radio</code> buttons the user selected. So the value attribute needs to be set to something which identifies the choice. In the above example, <code>indoor</code> and <code>outdoor</code> have been used an values for the <code>value</code> attributes.
```

Reviewer: Reworded it to make it look better and changed `radio buttons` to `radio`

</section>

## Instructions
<section id='instructions'>

> Give each of the <code>radio button</code> and <code>checkbox</code> inputs the <code>value</code> attribute. Use each of the inputs label text, in lowercase, as the value for the <code>value</code> attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Give each of the <code>radio</code> and <code>checkbox</code> inputs the <code>value</code> attribute. Use the input label text, in lowercase, as the value for the <code>value</code> attribute.
```
Changes `radio buttons` to `radio` and reworded it a bit

</section>

## Tests
<section id='tests'>

```yml
tests:
  - text: One of your radio buttons should have the <code>value</code> attribute of <code>indoor</code>.

>     testString: assert($('label > input[type="radio"]').filter("[value='indoor']").length > 0, 'One of your radio buttons should have an <code>value</code> attribute with <code>indoor</code>.');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    testString: assert($('label > input[type="radio"]').filter("[value='indoor']").length > 0);
```
I would have left this the same if it were the same as the `text` above, but since it is different and would need to be changed, I suggest removing it completely.

  - text: One of your radio buttons should have the <code>value</code> attribute of <code>outdoor</code>.

>     testString: assert($('label > input[type="radio"]').filter("[value='outdoor']").length > 0, 'One of your radio buttons should have an <code>value</code> attribute with <code>outdoor</code>.');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    testString: assert($('label > input[type="radio"]').filter("[value='outdoor']").length > 0);
```
I would have left this the same if it were the same as the `text` above, but since it is different and would need to be changed, I suggest removing it completely.

>   - text: One of your checkboxs should have the <code>value</code> attribute of <code>loving</code>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - text: One of your checkboxes should have the <code>value</code> attribute of <code>loving</code>.
```

>     testString: assert($('label > input[type="checkbox"]').filter("[value='loving']").length > 0, 'One of your checkboxs should have an <code>value</code> attribute with <code>loving</code>.');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    testString: assert($('label > input[type="checkbox"]').filter("[value='loving']").length > 0);
```
I would have not touched this if the spelling of `checkboxes` was correct. The assert strings are now taken from the `text` above, so we can completely remove this message

>   - text: One of your checkboxs should have the <code>value</code> attribute of <code>lazy</code>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - text: One of your checkboxes should have the <code>value</code> attribute of <code>lazy</code>.
```

>     testString: assert($('label > input[type="checkbox"]').filter("[value='lazy']").length > 0, 'One of your checkboxs should have an <code>value</code> attribute with <code>lazy</code>.');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    testString: assert($('label > input[type="checkbox"]').filter("[value='lazy']").length > 0);
```
I would have not touched this if the spelling of `checkboxes` was correct. The assert strings are now taken from the `text` above, so we can completely remove this message

>   - text: One of your checkboxs should have the <code>value</code> attribute of <code>energetic</code>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - text: One of your checkboxes should have the <code>value</code> attribute of <code>energetic</code>.
```

>     testString: assert($('label > input[type="checkbox"]').filter("[value='energetic']").length > 0, 'One of your checkboxs should have an <code>value</code> attribute with <code>energetic</code>.');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    testString: assert($('label > input[type="checkbox"]').filter("[value='energetic']").length > 0);
```
I would have not touched this if the spelling of `checkboxes` was correct. The assert strings are now taken from the `text` above, so we can completely remove this message
